One of the big technological problems in
was that the quote unquote big board,
the New York Stock Exchange, would often
fall behind
literally by hours. So, you could be
looking at the board thinking that you
know what the score is, if you will,
what the prices of the stock is,
but it would literally be hours off. And
that's if you're physically on the floor
of the exchange.
The folks on the floor were then calling
all the brokerage houses around the
country and even uptown in New York
to tell them what the numbers were in
the So, their numbers were hopelessly
out of date. And you know, when you see
pictures of, you know, thousands of
people on uh the streets of Wall Street,
those famous pictures in October of
1929, the reason there were so many
people in the streets is people had gone
down there physically cuz they wanted to
see what was actually happening to their
investments because you couldn't call
somebody, there was no app to look at,
and that unto itself created a real
dilemma. Putting aside what was going
on, by the way, on some of these uh
boats, you know, people were trading on
boats, those guys were, you know,
half a day, a day, uh
you know, they were
>> pigeon carriers to get the latest stock
price.
[Music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the Odd Lots podcast. I'm Joe
Weisenthal. And I'm Tracy Alloway.
Tracy, it's been a theme in a lot of our
episodes lately, but we are in an age
where trading and speculation is just
part of the culture. We know that stocks
are up. We know that a lot of things are
up, but that's different than it being
part of pop culture, which it is now.
It's a culture of lines. Lines going up.
>> People watch the lines. I really think
that if you're walking down the street
or on the subway and you see like a guy
staring down at his phone, there's a
good chance that he's like looking at a
Bitcoin
>> chart. Yeah. Yeah. At any given moment
Well, this was one of the things about
Bitcoin. It was so volatile, there was
actually something to watch. There's
like an entertainment factor. Um but of
course, when you get this kind of
speculative activity, everyone starts
worrying about when's it going to end,
when's the crash.
>> I have this theory
that nobody likes bubbles. That
basically, if there is a bubble, there's
two camps of people.
>> Mhm. One camp that is really upset that
they're missing out on it, and one camp
that is really anxious that they're
going to miss the top, and that there
are actually very few people in the camp
where it's like, oh, this is like really
good. I'm really happy. I'm really
relaxed.
>> who nailed the timing are pretty pleased
with themselves, so I assume.
>> And there's like five of those people,
you know? Like that's the problem.
Afterwards, someone's like, oh, I sold
the top. I feel good.
>> Yeah, absolutely. Um okay, so famous
crashes. We're going to talk about one
of them. Um you know, I remember the
dot-com era very well. I don't remember
this the uh the in market environment
we're going to talk about. Uh the 1920s?
You have no memory of that? Shame on
you.
>> don't remember 1929 very well. I did
read uh John Kenneth Galbraith's famous
book, The Great Crash, but there's a new
book out on the great stock market boom
and then crash of 1929. We are going to
be speaking with the author, someone I'm
thrilled to talk to, someone whose uh
accomplishments and work ethic puts us
all to shame. We're going to be speaking
with the one and only Andrew Ross
Sorkin, founder of DealBook at New York
Times, co-creator of Billions, uh
co-host of some Squawk Box CNBC. I made
that joke with you that Jim Cramer on as
if I'd never heard the network. And now
the author of 1929 Inside the Greatest
Crash in History and How It Shattered a
Nation. Andrew, thank you so much for
coming on Odd Lots. Thrilled to have you
here. Thank you for having me. I feel
like I'm a long-time listener,
first-time caller.
>> Amazing.
>> Thank you. How do you So, this isn't the
first time 1929 has been written about,
and the Galbraith book is probably the
There was up until now probably the most
famous book, right?
>> Yeah. What was the impulse to go back
and write a book about this this period
of time? To be honest with you, it was
about 10 years ago I'd written Too Big
to Fail. People used to ask me because
I'd written about the financial crisis
of 2008, they'd ask me questions about
1929, and the truth was I didn't really
have answers because I sort of knew, I
think like most of the public today,
that something pretty bad happened then.
I had I had read the Galbraith book, but
sort of beyond that, I was lacking
details. And I honestly went on a
vacation uh you may think this is like a
nerdy vacation thing to do. I I
downloaded some books to Kindle, and I
brought some more with me all about
1929. I sort of poured through them,
and I thought to myself,
"Why can't I understand who the
characters are, like the people, at a
visceral level? Like what were they
saying to each other? Um what were their
motivations? What were their incentives?
Who was sleeping with who? What was
really happening here? And
you know, I
grew up sort of loving books like, you
know, that were written by
Michael Lewis or Jim Stewart but
with um
Den of Thieves.
>> You mentioned A Night to Remember was
>> Night to Remember with with the Titanic
was a a great example of a book that
really sort of made things feel human.
Right. And so I thought, you know what?
Could somebody
and maybe it was me do that to 1929? And
the truth was I wasn't sure I could. The
one of the reasons I think this took so
long is was the entire time I wasn't
sure. And when I first started it
actually, I mean, started doing the
research, all many of the archivists
that I went to visit with were like,
"Andrew, we've read Too Big to Fail. Um
that kind of granular detail, it's just
too hard to find." And And by the way,
all the people are dead, obviously, so
there's nobody to interview. So, you're
you're really reliant on letters and
notes and memos and transcripts. And the
truth is there wasn't like two or three
or four major archives you could sort of
go excavate. And so this turned into
this sort of
bizarre, you know, years-long project of
putting these puzzle pieces together.
Um I can only imagine how much archival
research you had to do for this book. Um
it is very filled with texture and
personality and lots and lots of
details. Is there a particular character
that kind of stuck out to you in this
book? And I'm, you know,
I read about Charles Mitchell.
He's sort of the villain, but then
towards the end of it, you have a sort
of more nuanced opinion.
So, I think there's a couple characters,
and the truth is I would also say one
other thing cuz I know we'll probably
end up talking about today, like modern
day today.
>> When I started writing this book, I
never even thought about today. I was
thinking really
>> about then. I wouldn't think I was
>> Cuz if this is the top this year, you
nailed the time. But But the So,
but as I was working on this, these
characters to me like Charlie Mitchell,
who ran a bank called National City,
which becomes Citigroup,
you know, the parallels to me between
him, he effectively invented sort of
modern credit for lending, if you will,
to individuals to go and buy stock. I
mean, to me he Back then, he would have
been as famous as a Jamie Dimon of
today. He might have been the Michael
Milken of his time in certain ways. He
might have been even like a Dick Fuld uh
kind of character from Lehman Brothers.
So, I was fascinated with Charlie
Mitchell, and he was actually one of the
hardest uh characters to really write
because there really is no archive. He
didn't keep his own notes. He was really
dependent on actually finding other
archives of letters and things that he
uh participated in. Um he was on the
board of the New York Fed, and I was
able to get the minutes from those Fed
meetings for the first time, and that
really actually sort of grounded the
project.
I became fascinated by John Raskob,
who to me is like Elon Musk in the
1920s. He was everywhere
all the time, philosopher king, uh
helped uh run General Motors, created
really credit at General Motors, which
really changed America. That's actually
when people started taking on credit for
the first time.
Goes on to
play the market, goes on to get involved
in politics. He actually tried to
undermine Hoover's reputation in sort of
a
Musky kind of way, uh if you will.
And then goes to build what was then the
equivalent of a spaceship in the Empire
State Building. And meanwhile,
I I don't know if he gets credit for it,
but he he really did to some degree come
up with the idea at least or became an
advocate for a five-day work week in
America.
People forget there were six days back
then, and he thought it was an it would
be an economic boom
>> Mhm. because people would have
>> spend your money.
>> spend money. They'll buy cars. They'll
have to go play They'll have time to go
places, do all sorts So, I thought he
was fascinating. And then the last
person, uh Carter Glass. Mhm. Carter
Glass to me
>> fame.
>> fame. He He was a senator in Virginia.
Um
By the way, helped create the bill that
led to the the the creation of the
Federal Reserve, but he was the
Elizabeth Warren
of his time. And he used to rail for
years about this thing called
Mitchellism. And this idea that Charlie
Mitchell and the creation of debt and
leverage in the system was what was
going to undo it.
The um the Galbraith book talks a lot
about the I guess what are they the the
They were It was before mutual funds.
What were they called? The trusts?
>> Investment trusts.
>> The investment trusts. But your book
talks a lot about this idea of like
retail leverage, basically, which is
what you described. And it sounds like a
lot of these characters base And you
talk about they'd say, "Okay, we've
taught people that they can buy a car on
margin or a car on credit or a
dishwasher, why not a stock?" And it
seems like they really transed a lot of
people in industry really sort of
transported this consumer notion that
was nascent and just like, "Yeah, let's
port it over." I didn't appreciate that
back then. I mean, brokerages were
springing up on the corners of streets
the way they're like Starbucks
in New York today.
>> really fun. I always think about these
physical or like the brokerage on a a
cruise. It's like, wouldn't that be fun
to just walk in and play the market?
>> You mentioned lounges in like hotels,
women-only stock trading lounges, which
you know, I I would go for those
nowadays. They don't have to be women
only, but The other thing about this
nuts though is you would show up and you
could give them a dollar and they would
literally lend you 10. I mean, that's
what we're talking about. And so when
the market was going up, it really was
like free money. And I think this was
the first time this is ever really
happening. And so people didn't fully
appreciate all the things that were
possible let's just say. There's another
parallel with today, which is a lot of
the stock market being driven by AI,
right? And when people talk about the
market opportunity in AI, it's basically
uncapped. It's the entire world. It's
like all of business.
And in the 1920s,
people were saying stocks were going to
go up because the entire world was
buying into the US.
I think that's very true. I would
actually specifically point actually to
a technology story back then, which was
>> radio. Radio. The ticker symbol was
radio. The company was RCA. They also by
the way not only had the technology for
radio, they had the patents for
television.
And that was the Nvidia. I mean, that
was the meme stock
of that era because people were buying
into this future that we were all going
to experience. And they wouldn't have
been wrong by the way.
The conundrum is I think the stock split
adjusted at the peak was like got to 530
semi dollars and by 1932 it was like $3.
Obviously when radio
comes RCA, you're like, oh, it's the
Nvidia of the time. Nvidia makes a ton
of money and it makes more money every
year. We'll see we don't know how
sustainable that is cuz some of that is
them investing in companies which come
back and buy Nvidia. Setting that aside
>> vendor financing.
>> Was radio making a ton Was RCA making a
ton of money or was it mostly excitement
about the future? Do we have radio's
financials from the 20s?
>> So the bad news is we don't. In fact,
somebody said to me the other day, "Did
you ever get a chance to look at the
prospectuses of these stocks?" And I
said, "Prospectuses?
They hardly had leaflets." I mean, and
that's if they had anything, they
literally would be leaflets that they
would hand you.
>> PEs ratios going the PE ratio was
>> very hard to get real information.
Again, this is pre the creation of the
SEC. The the kind of rules and
regulations and just disclosures just
didn't exist in the same way that they
do today. So would you just got like a
check in the mail for a dividend every
once in a while? Like what access did
you actually have? So my understanding
is that you would get a check in in the
mail. In fact, often times they wouldn't
come in the mail. You'd actually go to
the brokerage house itself. And in some
cases they would keep that for you and
sometimes either reinvest it or keep it
on like a ledger, if you will. But I I
don't know
the specifics exactly of how
of how you would deal with your dividend
when and if you got it. One thing I
really like in the book is all these
different characters from American from
world history,
you telling the story of them getting
really obsessed with the US stock
market. So Winston Churchill on an early
trip to the United States gets really
into margin trading. I think like you
talk about Groucho Marx getting really
into To to me that was also like a great
surprise.
>> not something I'd read about.
>> no idea that Winston Churchill shows up
in New York. Actually shows up in the US
even before this, but in New York in
October of 1929, he was actually down on
the floor of the stock exchange visiting
while this is all happening. He was
totally engrossed in trading. He was
trying to make money. He ends up losing
losing money of course like everybody
else. He ends up going to a dinner with
all the leading bankers the night that
the market completely and utterly tanks.
Um and it's similarly, I didn't know
about it either, but you know, Groucho
Marx was living in Long Island and
basically, I shouldn't say he was living
on Long Island, but he would was
according to his son, he was really
living at a brokerage house trying to
re-tape every day. And he ends up having
to mortgage his home to pay for the
margin calls when they called. Um some
people did make money. Going back to our
intro, very few people managed to make
money, but some of them did in
spectacular amounts. Can you talk a a
little bit about Jesse Livermore? Uh the
great Jesse Livermore. There's been a
lot written about Jesse Livermore. Jesse
Livermore is a character in this book,
of course.
I don't know if we should give away the
ending for those who don't know, but
Jesse Livermore ultimately shoots
himself in the head in 1941 over at the
Sherry Netherland just a couple of
blocks from
>> themselves in the head in this book.
>> There's a lot of shooting, jumping out
windows and other things. But you know,
Jesse was a short seller.
And he was spectacularly successful in
the crash itself. The truth was though
he had been
super successful in parts of the 20s and
then was actually quite a quite a
failure in most of 27 and 28 and 29
because the market kept going up and he
was almost out of business.
And then he goes back in in in in fall
of 29 and makes something like a hundred
million dollars plus. But of course
like I think any of these sort of super
emotionally
um
complicated people
um he ultimately loses it. I mean,
quickly. And then
you know, makes makes a little bit more,
loses a little bit more, makes a little
bit more and then
loses well, everything. You said that
when you started this book, it was you
know, you started a decade ago. So it
was not about some attempt to make a
parallel today. Even though the timing
may we things are very crazy these days
many people would say. When you as a
I've always been curious about this cuz
when I read history of any sort, the
brain can't help but try to find
parallels to the present. I think at
least for me it's like, oh, this is just
like this. This just like this. When
you're doing the process of writing
history
do you have any mechanisms in place to
avoid the temptation to sort of overdraw
parallels? Because that must be
incredibly tempting to find the details
that feel salient and similar today.
This is the Nvidia of the time. This is
the Cathy Wood of the time. This is the
whatever. So yes and no. I I think it
wasn't until two years ago when I was
getting closer to being finished
and also sort of recognizing what was
happening in the moment today and the
parallels started to seem clearer and
closer. So
three and four years ago actually didn't
feel
as similar oddly enough.
But all of a sudden you're starting to
see these debates that they're having in
literally the the spring of 1929 about
whether to raise or lower interest rates
and how they're going to try to end
speculation within the New York Fed and
to some degree the political pressures
that are around them and you start to
say to yourself, well, that seems kind
of I I
I've been hearing a lot about that. So
I I I was I hesitated to sort of overdo
it,
but I also was cognizant that I imagined
readers who were reading it might think
about some of these things.
And one of the decisions we made in
particular, I remember having lots of
debates with the my editor about was
nowhere in the book did we ever want to
stop the reader
and take you out of 1929 and say, "Hey,
by the way, this is kind of like that or
this is kind of like that." Some readers
may see these parallels or different
things themselves. Some may never see
them. And some may come up with
completely different parallels. And I
would love that frankly.
I have a parallel. Okay, so
something that happened slightly after
the crash is Smoot-Hawley, right? The
tariffs.
And today we're in the Trump
administration with very broad
widespread tariffs. Yeah, that wasn't on
my bingo card when I was writing that
originally. Um I'm curious how much of
the subsequent Great Depression would
you attribute to those sorts of economic
policies versus the stock market crash
itself?
So I actually think there was a lot of
bad decisions and dominos that came
after the crash itself that really is
what put us into
the Great Depression. So I look at the
crash
and and really only the first half of
this book is about the crash itself as
sort of the first domino of a series of
things that were sort of the necessary
ingredients to create the depression. So
you know, when you think about all of
the bad decisions, the tariffs
are one of those uh decisions. You know,
the idea that Andrew Mellon, who was our
Treasury Secretary, who was effectively
saying
you know, let these capitalists eat it.
They were speculating, let them suffer.
You know, when you think about the fact
that the Fed really did very little at
the time and almost sat on their hands
in large part, I would argue because the
Fed was such a new institution. People
forget it was born in 1913.
That
they were cognizant of the political
pressures. If they were seen they
couldn't have pulled off a Volcker-like
move. They they knew there was
speculation. But if they had said,
"Okay, we're going to really just raise
interest rates."
By the way, it wasn't they were going to
lose their jobs. I think they actually
feared that maybe there wouldn't be a
Fed.
So I think there was sort of a
confluence of all of these different
things. We could talk about the gold
standard. I mean, there's sort of a
series of things that that take place
that lead eventually to 9,000 banks
going out of business and unemployment
at 25%. It's interesting speaking of the
Fed because these days there's all this
question of like we're looking at
financial conditions, we're looking at
real economy, etc. It's interesting how
maybe the Fed didn't do enough to curb
speculation or maybe at some point it
was didn't do enough to counteract the
downturn, but they were very keyed in to
the rate on margin lending as one of
their main tools that they they in their
toolkit. So
>> So, was their big tool or what they
thought was their tool.
However, they didn't really use it and
so you had this sort of fascinating
debate happening in the spring of of
1929 when they're sitting there saying,
"There's too much speculation. We need
to end the speculation. How do we do
that?" Well,
the decision they came to effectively
was to send out letters to banks saying,
"Please stop lending to speculators." To
which
>> Moral suasion, right?
>> To which the bankers said, "What are you
talking about? How do you define what a
speculator is? What What isn't one?"
Some of the banks were so scared that
they effectively stopped lending. That
unto itself was a problem. And then you
had people like Charlie Mitchell who, by
the way, in that moment you would have
compared to Donald Trump saying,
"Actually, lower interest rates,
please."
So, I think there was this sort of
fascinating dynamic that you could sort
of see play out. Again,
these are some of the details I don't
think I understood the texture of of
what really led to all of this. Um
there's another parallel, speaking of
the Fed. This might be, you know, um
pressing it stretching it a little bit,
but
I get the sense that nowadays people
feel that the Fed can come up with any
solution to any problem, right? We've
seen them roll out tons and tons of
different programs, whether it's for
corporate credit or repo, treasuries,
that sort of thing. Um in the 1920s,
there was a sense that America had
beaten the boom-bust cycle, right?
Because there was another crash
previously, which was 1907.
I Look, again,
I think this is one of those things
where
because of the 1907 experience,
which, by the way, was solved
effectively by J.P. Morgan
taking a bunch of bankers and trapping
them in a room until they could figure
out what they were going to do,
led to a sort of sense of overconfidence
and not just overconfidence, a sense
among certain men, men of a certain
group, if you will, that if you could
just put the right people in a room
together, we could solve anything.
Thomas Lamont was effectively running
J.P. Morgan during this period. J.P.
Morgan himself had died. His son, Jack,
was
the CEO in name, but really Thomas was
running uh things and he was one of
those kind of believers. But I think
that 1929 and what happened in the
markets just got a
got so far away from them that they
realized that there was nothing
ultimately in the end they could do and
they didn't know that
until it was too late. So, 1907,
literally 100 years before our crash.
And then the uh that the Great Financial
Crisis, that leading to all of this
overconfidence that there is just an
endless series of tools that the
government has to stop anything. And
then we get to the 1929
>> your own parallels now.
>> It's how do you not? How do you That's
what the brain does and I don't even
Like I'm I'm not even arguing there's a
parallel. I just think that the brain
naturally sees these things and we can't
avoid it. Um
And maybe
>> we're in '25, so we still have 4 years.
>> four more years. Okay.
Now, this is not financial advice, but
in four years I'm going to try to make
my money. Um wait, maybe this I'm going
to ask you something I don't know if
there's You may not even want to answer.
This could be like a really good movie
or TV show on Netflix.
>> Oh, yeah. Yes, I thought it's very
Gilded Age.
>> Age. I had that thought, too. Are you
going to Can you give us a little news
here? I don't have any news for you. Uh
you know, half
>> Co-creator of Billions Happily, there's
a a a bunch of folks in Hollywood who've
been reaching out recently and
>> it. And there's some conversations going
on, but no news and um I, you know,
that's one of those cross-your-fingers
kind of thing.
>> We could officially say that we think it
would be a good show. We want cameos.
>> want cameos. We we can organize that. Um
you know, this is a period piece, so
we're going to have to I love it. Yes.
Tracy could be the um the astrologer
that hangs out What was it? Was it the
Algonquin Hotel and gives out stock tips
based on the Plaza Hotel?
>> So, you're talking about Evangeline
Adams.
>> Yeah, tell us about
>> She was an astrologer um and an
astrologer who was taken shockingly
seriously at that time by all sorts of
financiers. Uh before he died, J.P.
Morgan himself was uh famous for going
to visit with her.
Uh she had an office in Carnegie Hall
and she would literally sit inside the
Plaza Hotel and people would come up and
talk to her and visit with She had a
newsletter and she had And then in By
the way, interestingly, in October of
1929,
as the market is crashing and people
don't always appreciate the crash really
happened over several days. It was not
just one bad day. She would have these
almost like seances
where people would come to her office
and she wasn't doing one-on-ones at that
point because there was the groups were
so big.
She was summoning the animal spirits.
Yes, and she was she was praying for uh
of course for for higher stock prices.
Interestingly,
she got a lot of credit for the stock
market boom because in the fall of '29,
I think right after Labor Day in
September, a reporter called her and
asked her what was in the stars, of
course, and she told everybody that the
market was going to go up. Yeah. Um
there's another thing that you write
about in your book, which again, could
be a potential parallel, which is I
guess the role of technology back then.
And I'm thinking about the recent
banking crisis mini drama, whatever you
want to call it, where, you know, rumors
about the health of the bank flew around
really, really quickly um on social
media and in private chat groups and
things like that. And some people
thought that contributed to a lot of the
um the problems.
In the 1929 crash,
how quickly did information disseminate
and how quickly were the share price
drops actually, you know, reflected on
the exchanges and communicated to other
people? Glacially.
So, one of the big technological
problems in 1929
was that the quote-unquote big board,
the New York Stock Exchange, would often
fall behind,
literally by hours. So, you could be
looking at the board thinking that you
know what the score is, if you will,
what the price is of the stock is,
but it would literally be hours off and
that's if you're physically on the floor
of the exchange.
The folks on the floor were then calling
all the brokerage houses around the
country and even uptown in New York
to tell them what the numbers were and
they So, their numbers were hopelessly
out of date. And you know, when you see
pictures of, you know, thousands of
people on uh the streets of Wall Street,
those famous pictures in October of
1929, the reason there were so many
people in the streets is people had gone
down there physically cuz they wanted to
see what was actually happening to their
investments because you couldn't call
somebody. There was no app to look at.
And that unto itself created a real
dilemma, putting aside what was going
on, by the way, on some of these uh
boats. You know, people were trading on
boats. Those guys were, you know,
half a day a day uh
you know, behind
>> pigeon carriers to get the latest stock
price. Well, Jesse Livermore, like he
had his own phone lines, right? Yes. He
was the citadel. I was literally going
to say he was the Ken Griffin setting up
a satellite in his dorm or any one of
these people who later on try to get a
faster line to the exchange with
microwave towers. He did that with phone
lines. He did with phone lines and his
own people literally down on the floor
that were then calling in the bids back
to his office so that he would have
better information than other people.
Uh phone lines were the Lindy latency of
the time.
>> Yeah, they were. That's what I say. Um
okay, another parallel. I'm just going
to throw out parallels. I love it.
>> And you can agree or disagree.
>> Ross Sorkin of the time? Oh, there you
go. Was there an Andrew Ross Sorkin of
the time? Well, there was an Alexander
Noyes was the business editor of the New
York Times. Uh-huh. And he was pretty
respected guy, so I think that would
have been
I would I would I would I would take
that.
>> All right. There Interestingly, there
was a a reporter
>> Musk of the time? Walter Lippmann.
Oh, you know, I So, Walter I downloaded
a Walter Lippmann book. So, Walter
Lippmann was a very interesting
journalist because he was
he was very insidey. He had a very close
relationship with Thomas Lamont at J.P.
Morgan. Some people might have said back
then, afterwards, too close.
>> Okay, that's not on
He then turned around, though, actually
um after a lot of these things emerged
and sort of really went after them.
Uh
So, I don't know. There's There was a
whole But the other thing I should say,
uh we as a group, meaning the journal
the journalistas, Uh-huh. did not cover
ourselves in glory, in part because a
lot of these people were being paid off
physically, like with cash. I mean, talk
about manipulation. There were no
insider trading laws. Yeah. People were
literally going up to reporters, forget
about taking them out to dinner. They
were saying, "You know, here's money and
please write an article saying such and
such stock is, you know, bound to move
higher tomorrow because
some rumor." Okay, so another parallel.
Just keep going. Um
people talk about AI nowadays and you
see these charts of these sort of um I
always say it's an incestuous
relationship between all the different
AI companies where so-and-so is buying
from this company and then they're
lending to this company and it all kind
of comes full circle. When you think
about the 1929 crash, a lot of it was,
you know, businesses issuing stock in
order to borrow money in order to invest
in more stocks.
Any similarities there? That sort of
self-
>> it's very much
Well,
if you think about these investment
trusts, there were so many investment
trusts that turned into sort of leverage
upon leverage. They were like Russian
dolls of leverage and you didn't really
even know what was inside of them.
I think that's a little I don't know if
I can look at fully at the AI companies
like that just yet, though. I think
there are probably certain types of
deals and vendor financing sort of
arrangements that
should be raising questions.
But you could look at the world of
crypto, actually. You could look at um
you know, Strategy Group is an
interesting I mean, is Strategy is like
an investment trust. That's actually
what it is. A lot of these trusts that
are emerging, that's what they are. The
question, of course,
>> MicroStrategy? Just for people for
people who haven't been paying attention
to the name. Yeah.
>> Yeah, formerly MicroStrategy, Michael
Saylor. And you know, I think there are
so there are these businesses that that
have similarity. Again, I don't want to
tell you that Strategy
uh is it is it is it 1929 style
investment trust per se? I don't know.
Um
can we talk about some other stuff?
What's your what's your you I said in
the intro you're like have all these
affiliations, you're still doing
DealBook, all of this other stuff. Like
what is what is your day
>> up together. We No, no, you're like but
like what is your what is your um like
what do you cuz you're still doing all
of that. I've like paired back a bunch
of stuff. I don't know I don't do TV
anymore, etc. Like what is your like day
What's your day
>> to wake up with you and I
>> to, but then I stopped because I got
tired and you didn't. So what I want to
know is like um tell me about what's a
day like for you these days.
What are you up to? So I wake up usually
around 4:30-ish.
I usually do
sort of the final pass on some DealBook
stuff till call it 5:10-ish.
>> Oh, wow. So you just go straight to the
computer. You wake up and go to the
>> Yes. Oh, straight. There's no there's no
yes. No, when the alarm goes off, up up
up. And then I do Squawk Box, often
times still uh fixing things in DealBook
up until the bitter end. And um that
usually goes till about 9:00. Uh often
go on to a Morning Joe, maybe talk a
little economics there.
And then get back into
DealBook land as we plan out the next
day's newsletter.
And then in between all of that, try to
write this and uh I have three kids and
get involved in other projects and
things. So it's it's a busy day that
doesn't typically end till, you know,
the end of the day. What time do you go
to bed?
I try to go to bed I try by 9:30.
If I if I can be That's reasonable.
>> be in bed by 9:30, this can work. Yeah.
If if it gets to 10:00 or 10:15 or
anytime after that,
>> going to be a rough day the next day.
>> The next day is not a good day. Okay,
well one of the things you're known for
is, you know, you have a lot of access.
You know a lot of people. What are you
hearing right now? You don't have to
name names, obviously, but what are you
hearing general opinions about the
market and maybe the influence of policy
from the Trump administration?
Oh, goodness. So
I don't know any CEO right now that is
particularly thrilled with the Trump
administration per se. I think that most
CEOs I know are quite troubled
by things that the Trump administration
is doing.
You won't normally hear that with the
exception of maybe Ken Griffin or
somebody like that who's been somewhat
public about some things, but of course
sort of modulated on others.
Having said that, I think they love the
idea of deregulation.
I think the folks in finance, by the
way, love the idea of some of the things
that Trump is doing, even when it comes
to things like
you know, earnings reports. You know,
most CEOs I know say, "I don't want to
have to do earnings, you know, four
times a year. I'll do that twice."
You have a whole movement afoot. And by
the way, this is this to me is a
parallel. You know, 1920s we talked
about democratizing finance. That was
like a big concept. Now this whole idea
of democratizing finance in the context
of putting private credit and private
equity and venture capital inside your
retirement accounts in these sort of
semi-liquid funds and things, that's
very 1929-ish to me. So
I do think there are people who like
that.
But I think there's still this sort of
sort of underlying agenda.
Can you talk actually a little bit more
about this shattered a nation part of
it? Like what is it I mean, there was a
big downturn. We all know about the
Great Depression. Did it threaten to rip
apart the country when it all ended?
Well, so I think it ultimately did come
close to ripping apart the country, but
I think even
um
maybe more powerfully it ripped apart
generationally a psyche. So I I don't
tell the story in the book cuz I didn't
know if it was appropriate, but I'll
tell it to you. Um
my grandfather
was 11 years old. Uh he's no longer
alive.
In 1929. He uh
his brother was a messenger boy.
And he was down there
in October of 1929. He used to tell the
story uh and he was helping his brother
and he watched somebody jump out of a
window.
And
he lived till he was 91 years old.
he never bought a share of stock
in his entire life. Bought some bonds,
never stock. And he would always say,
"Andrew, this whole stock market thing
Yeah. not for us."
>> Too risky. And so I when I say shattered
nation, I mean, I think it did to some
degree come close to shattering the
psyche of a nation. Did it Did it come
close to a civil war? No. Yeah. But
clearly
the idea of unemployment being 25% in
America, that there were shantytowns,
otherwise known as Hoovervilles,
literally in Central Park, you know,
just a couple blocks from here.
And then, you know, worse in in so many
other places.
I I think for for a generation of
people, it felt like a shattered nation.
>> Yeah. You don't really go beyond the
1930s in the book, but it does feel like
it took a very long time to rebuild, I
guess, trust in the stock market. We
didn't really see retail like dive in a
lot until, I guess, the 1960s, something
like that.
>> 1960s, yeah. I think that's right. I
think that gets a little bit to the sort
of generational divide.
Look, the other piece of this is we, you
know, the book doesn't get
doesn't go into, you know, World War II
and all the things that that that
happened after that. But that's
actually, I think, coming out of World
War II is what ultimately led to sort of
the
the boom again to the extent we had one
in the US and obviously the markets
boom. And the reason why people I think
started to get back in the market was
cuz the market kept going up. And people
started to look at the market like they
always do. And when they think that the
train's leaving the station and they're
not on the train, they think, "I got to
get on I got to get on the train."
Totally back to something you said
before. It's interesting that these CEOs
don't really speak their mind when the
whole thing in January was like,
"Finally, free speech. We can talk
again. We can We can say all the things
that we've been hiding." It's kind of
messed up, isn't it?
Look, I I
you'd think that there should be real
free speech taking place and that people
could raise their hand.
>> The liberal attitude towards speech. But
I think right now there the view is
what's the trade-off. I think there are
people who who don't who look at certain
things happening in Washington say, "I
don't like what's happening.
If I raise my hand now, if I raise my
hand today, what is the upside for
raising my hand and what is the downside
for raising my hand?" I think they look
and say, "There's very little upside,
actually, because
the chance of of real change in this
moment right now is unlikely. Maybe when
we get to an election or midterms or
other things, I don't know.
And the chance of uh
you know, on the downside
is high. I mean, I think that between
what we've seen the administration do to
law firms, to universities,
the whole Paramount CBS story,
taking stakes in Intel and other things.
I mean, I think there's real
implications if you're a business leader
today about how you approach your job.
You know, every business leader is
almost have to become a politician.
Yeah. All right, this is a very um
journalistic
classic cliche question. I feel kind of
bad, but you're another journalist, so
you know, don't judge me.
If you could, I guess, take away one
lesson from the 1929 crash and really
emphasize it to politicians, policy
makers, regulators, business people,
whoever, what would it be?
Every financial crisis is a function of
one thing.
It is leverage in the system, too much
leverage. You actually can have
speculators and all the bad actors you
want doing all the bad things you can
imagine on stage.
But it's the leverage that tips it over.
And as a result, you need to have
guardrails to prevent that because the
human condition
is to want more.
Right?
That's what the investor class it's I
hate to say it
the idea of self-regulation is very,
very difficult. People do not regulate
themselves, they just don't. And so we
just need to be super careful,
especially when there are all these kind
of new products being developed other
things we don't know where the leverage
is.
That to me would be the the single
biggest thing. And my fear is we're
living in a moment right now, actually,
where some of those guardrails are
almost purposely being taken away. Well,
we have four years between it for until
the 100-year anniversary of the 1929
crash. Andrew Ross Sorkin, so thrilled
to finally have you on the podcast. The
book is a great opportunity. It's really
great work.
>> appreciate being here.
>> cool that you did this. I'm very
everyone should be very impressed.
Everyone should check it out. It's great
history. And um I hope uh I hope it
becomes a TV show. Uh thank you. I hope
I hope I can come back here in 2029, if
not before.
>> For sure. And then 2030, yeah. All
right, that was fantastic. Thanks,
Andrew.
>> Andrew.
>> Thank you so much.
>> Uh Tracy, that was a lot of fun. Um I
love bubble history. We used to do tons
more episodes on bubbles. They're always
really fun.
>> Well, you know, the Florida land bubble
gets mentioned in here.
>> Yeah, we did so a bunch of episodes on
that. And um
now this is really cool. I love all the
pop culture elements, the Winston
Churchill, the Groucho Marx. It's just a
really It's incredibly rich story. It's
incredibly rich piece of history.
>> Yeah, and it is funny. You can't avoid
thinking about the parallels. You really
can't. When am I getting my Japanese
exotic rabbit bubble episode?
>> Wait, is there anytime? Was that a
bubble? I didn't know about that one.
>> Apparently. And sheep. I want to do New
England sheep, too. I want to do all the
animal bubbles. Let's do it Let's do
them all. All right. That the guano
bubble. We've never done an episode on
that. But um one thing the one other
thing too is I think like, you know,
2007-2008,
the great financial crisis.
Um that was like a a debt bubble, right?
There were a bunch of assets that were
expected to pay back at a dollar on the
dollar and they like paid back at 90
cents or whatever and people panicked
and there was a bank run.
>> There's still a lot of credit tied to
it.
>> a lot of There was definitely the
leverage.
>> was being used as collateral for
>> was being used as collateral. But it
was, you know, that
right now we don't It just feels like
it's a stock story. It's a It's a It's a
things everyone wants access to the
right tail of whatever. And everyone
wants the big score, etc. And that's
what sort of 1929 reminds me of. This
idea like different than a sort of like
housing bubble. Just this idea like
everyone wants those right tail
outcomes, including Winston Churchill
and Groucho Marx.
>> Well, you know the chart that that
doomers always tweet is the margin debt
chart, right? And you know, I have
doubts about that cuz the margin debt
chart goes up when stocks go up,
basically. Um but it is at record highs,
so. Anyway, people should definitely
check out this book. All right. Shall we
leave it there? Let's leave it there.
This has been another episode of the All
Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway. You
can follow me at Tracy Alloway. And I'm
Joe Weisenthal. You can follow me at The
Stalwart. If you enjoyed this
conversation, then please like, comment
below, or subscribe. Thanks for
watching.
[Music]
Ooh.